Jeff Erickson he/him/his, Computers and Education, Theory and Algorithms, Ph.D., Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, July 1996 M.S., Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, June 1992 B.A., Computer Science and Mathematical Sciences (double major), Rice University, May 1987 Ph.D., Computer Science, University of California, Berkeley, July 1996 M.S., Information and Computer Science, University of California, Irvine, June 1992 B.A., Computer Science and Mathematical Sciences (double major), Rice University, May 1987 Biography I have been a faculty member in the Department of Computer Science since 1998 and a full professor since 2010; I was named a Sohaib and Sara Abbasi Professor in 2020. I have published over 100 technical papers in computational geometry, computational topology, graph algorithms, and related topics at the intersection of computer science and mathematics. Among many other conference committee memberships, I was the chair of the community-elected steering committee for the International Symposium on Computational Geometry (SOCG) from 2013 to 2016, and I am currently a SafeTOC (anti-harassment) advocate for SOCG and for the ACM-SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms (SODA). technical papers SafeTOC I primarily teach large algorithms classes; my free Algorithms textbook is used in dozens of computer science departments and by myriads of of students, recruiters, and professionals around the world. I have been an Education Innovation Fellow in the Grainger College of Engineering's Academy of Excellence in Engineering Education. More than half of my former PhD students have tenure, almost half have won NSF CAREER awards, and my grand-students outnumber my students. My own awards include a Sloan Research Fellowship, an NSF CAREER award, and numerous teaching and research awards from the University of Illinois. Algorithms Algorithms Academy of Excellence in Engineering Education At various times in my professional life I have been an associate department head, the chair of the faculty advisory committee, the manager of a software development project, an Apple II assembly-language programmer, a disk jockey, a pizza cook, and a knot-tying instructor at a Boy Scout camp. My current favorite brands of espresso are Unicorn Blood by Dark Matter and Redacted by Blue Copper. Please see http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/cv.pdf for a detailed curriculum vitae. Unicorn Blood by Dark Matter Redacted by Blue Copper http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/cv.pdf Academic Positions Sohaib and Sara Abbasi Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2020-present Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2010-present Associate Professor (tenured), University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2004-2010 Assistant Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1998-2004 Sohaib and Sara Abbasi Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2020-present Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2010-present Associate Professor (tenured), University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2004-2010 Assistant Professor, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 1998-2004 Teaching Statement I primarily teach courses in algorithms. My free algorithms textbook, along with an extensive archive of related course materials, is available at http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/. Please send me bug reports! http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/teaching/algorithms/ Research Statement For a complete overview of my research activities, please see my publication archive at http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/pubs/. http://jeffe.cs.illinois.edu/pubs/ , Algorithms, data structures, and lower bounds, Computational and discrete geometry and topology, Computer science education