Ruby Tahboub, Purdue University, West Lafayette, M.S in Computer Science -2016 Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ph.D. in Computer Science - 2019 Purdue University, West Lafayette, M.S in Computer Science -2016 Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ph.D. in Computer Science - 2019 Academic Positions Teaching Assistant Professor,  University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Computer Science, 2022-Present. Visiting Assistant Professor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Computer Science, 2019-2022 Teaching Assistant Professor,  University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Computer Science, 2022-Present. Visiting Assistant Professor, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Computer Science, 2019-2022 Teaching Statement My teaching philosophy focuses on helping students construct the link between abstract concepts and practice while minimizing the cognitive load. To that end, my teaching approach builds on the idea of opening, extending, and closing circles of communication, i.e., reciprocal discussions with students. For instance, when teaching a new topic, I approach the challenge as a series of circles of communication where each circle focuses on one solution stage. In my experience, I found the reciprocal nature of this approach lends itself to incremental learning that effectively links concepts and applications. My teaching philosophy focuses on helping students construct the link between abstract concepts and practice while minimizing the cognitive load. To that end, my teaching approach builds on the idea of opening, extending, and closing circles of communication, i.e., reciprocal discussions with students. For instance, when teaching a new topic, I approach the challenge as a series of circles of communication where each circle focuses on one solution stage. In my experience, I found the reciprocal nature of this approach lends itself to incremental learning that effectively links concepts and applications. My teaching philosophy focuses on helping students construct the link between abstract concepts and practice while minimizing the cognitive load. To that end, my teaching approach builds on the idea of opening, extending, and closing circles of communication, i.e., reciprocal discussions with students. For instance, when teaching a new topic, I approach the challenge as a series of circles of communication where each circle focuses on one solution stage. In my experience, I found the reciprocal nature of this approach lends itself to incremental learning that effectively links concepts and applications. My teaching philosophy focuses on helping students construct the link between abstract concepts and practice while minimizing the cognitive load. To that end, my teaching approach builds on the idea of opening, extending, and closing circles of communication, i.e., reciprocal discussions with students. For instance, when teaching a new topic, I approach the challenge as a series of circles of communication where each circle focuses on one solution stage. In my experience, I found the reciprocal nature of this approach lends itself to incremental learning that effectively links concepts and applications. link  Recent Courses TaughtCS 101 - Intro Computing: Engrg & Sci CS 412 P3 (CS 412 P4, CS 412 PG, CS 412 PU) - Introduction to Data Mining Recent Courses Taught CS 101 - Intro Computing: Engrg & Sci CS 412 P3 (CS 412 P4, CS 412 PG, CS 412 PU) - Introduction to Data Mining CS 101 - Intro Computing: Engrg & Sci CS 412 P3 (CS 412 P4, CS 412 PG, CS 412 PU) - Introduction to Data Mining 