Koustuv Saha he/him/his, Interactive Computing, Ph.D. in Computer Science, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2021  B.Tech (Hons.) in Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, 2012 Ph.D. in Computer Science, Georgia Institute of Technology, 2021 B.Tech (Hons.) in Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, 2012 Biography Koustuv Saha started as an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in Fall 2023. He completed his Ph.D. in Computer Science from Georgia Tech in 2021. His research interest is in social computing, computational social science, human-centered machine learning, and FATE. He adopts machine learning, natural language, and causal inference analysis to examine human behavior and wellbeing using different forms of digital data, including social media and multimodal sensing data. His work questions the underlying assumptions of data-driven inferences and the possible harms such inferences might lead to. His research is situated in an interdisciplinary and human-centered context and bears implications for various stakeholders. His work has been published at various venues, including CHI, CSCW, ICWSM, IMWUT (UbiComp), Scientific Reports, JMIR, FAccT, among others. He is a recipient of the 2021 Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award from the College of Computing at Georgia Tech, Foley Scholarship Award from the GVU Center, Snap Research Fellowship, and a finalist of the Symantec Graduate Fellowship. His research has won the Outstanding Study Design Award at ICWSM, and has been covered by several media outlets, including the New York Times, Vox, CBC Radio, NBC, 11Alive, the Hill, and the Commonwealth Times. He was previously a Senior Researcher at Microsoft Research, Montreal, in the Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics in AI (FATE) group. During his Ph.D., he did research internships at Snap Research, Microsoft Research, Max Planck Institute, and Fred Hutch Cancer Research. Earlier, he completed his B.Tech (Hons.) in Computer Science and Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kharagpur. He was awarded the NTSE Scholarship by the Govt. of India, and he has six years of overall industry research experience. , Human-Computer Interaction, Social Computing, Computational Social Science, Ubiquitous Computing, Fairness, Accountability, Transparency, and Ethics in AI (FATE)