Talia Ringer they/them/theirs, Programming Languages / Formal Methods / Software Engineering, University of Washington, Ph.D. in Computer Science, 2021  University of Maryland, College Park, B.S. in Mathematics and Computer Science, 2012 University of Washington, Ph.D. in Computer Science, 2021 University of Maryland, College Park, B.S. in Mathematics and Computer Science, 2012 Biography How can we build a world in which programmers of all skill levels across all domains can prove the absence of costly or dangerous bugs in software systems---that is, formally verify them? I am an Assistant Professor with the PL/FM/SE group at Illinois, and I like to build proof engineering technologies to make that world a reality. In so doing, I love to use the whole toolbox---everything from dependent type theory to program transformations to neural proof synthesis---all in service of real humans. Prior to Illinois, I earned my PhD in 2021 from the University of Washington, working with the wonderful PLSE group. Prior to graduate school, I earned my BS in Computer Science and Mathematics from the University of Maryland, then worked as a software engineer at Amazon for three years. I am extremely passionate about building a welcoming environment for students. I am founder and chair of the SIGPLAN long-term mentoring committee (called SIGPLAN-M), an international long-term cross-institutional mentoring program for aspiring and current programming languages researchers spanning dozens of countries and reaching hundreds of mentees around the world. I am also the founder and president of the Computing Connections Fellowship, a fellowship that provides institution-independent transitional funding for computer science Ph.D. students who need help escaping unhealthy environments. I am openly bisexual and prefer they/them pronouns; I am always happy to talk to LGBTQ students. I am also very open about my experiences with mental illness, and very happy to talk to anyone who needs an ear (though students should keep in mind that I am a mandatory reporter through Title IX). Academic Positions Assistant Professor, University of Illinois, 2021-Present Assistant Professor, University of Illinois, 2021-Present Other Professional Employment Visiting Researcher at Google Research (N2Formal), Summer 2022 - Winter 2022  Research Scientist Intern at Amazon (Automated Reasoning Group), Summer 2016 Software Development Engineer II at Amazon (Amazon Business), 2012 – 2015 Visiting Researcher at Google Research (N2Formal), Summer 2022 - Winter 2022 Research Scientist Intern at Amazon (Automated Reasoning Group), Summer 2016 Software Development Engineer II at Amazon (Amazon Business), 2012 – 2015 Professional Highlights Proof repair, the subject of my PhD thesis, has since been reimplemented by researchers and engineers at Amazon and NASA, and adapted to the languages they use. It is also the subject of a DARPA AI Exploration called PEARLS, a grant for which I am primary PI. Proof repair, the subject of my PhD thesis, has since been reimplemented by researchers and engineers at Amazon and NASA, and adapted to the languages they use. It is also the subject of a DARPA AI Exploration called PEARLS, a grant for which I am primary PI. , Verification, Interactive Theorem Proving,  Proof Automation