Ruta Mehta, Theory and Algorithms, Doctor of Philosophy, Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. 2012. Advisor: Prof. Milind Sohoni  Masters of Technology,Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, 2005 Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Engineering, Maharaja Saiyajirao University (MSU) Baroda, 2003 Doctor of Philosophy, Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay. 2012. Advisor: Prof. Milind Sohoni Masters of Technology,Computer Science and Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, 2005 Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Engineering, Maharaja Saiyajirao University (MSU) Baroda, 2003 Biography I am currently an Assistant Professor in the Department of Computer Science. Prior to joining UIUC, I did postdoc at Simons Institute for Theory of Computing at UC Berkeley (Aug'15 to Dec'15), and in College of Computing at Georgia Tech (Aug'12 to July'15, advisor: Prof. Vijay V. Vazirani). I received my Ph.D. in computer science from IIT-Bombay under the supervision of Prof. Milind Sohoni and Prof. Bharat Adsul, in August 2012. My Ph.D. thesis titled "Nash Equilibrium Computation in Various Games" won the ACM India Doctoral Dissertation Award, 2012. Academic Positions Assistant Professor, Dept of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 2016 - Present Postdoctoral Fellow, Simons Institute for Theory of Computing, University of California at Berkeley. July'15 - Dec'15. Host: Prof. Allistair Sinclair. Postdoctoral Fellow, College of Computing, Georgia Institute of Technology. Sept'12 - July'15.  Host: Prof. Vijay V. Vazirani Software Engineer and Developer, Sybase India, Aug'05 - July'07 Assistant Professor, Dept of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. 2016 - Present Postdoctoral Fellow, Simons Institute for Theory of Computing, University of California at Berkeley. July'15 - Dec'15. Host: Prof. Allistair Sinclair. Postdoctoral Fellow, College of Computing, Georgia Institute of Technology. Sept'12 - July'15.  Host: Prof. Vijay V. Vazirani Software Engineer and Developer, Sybase India, Aug'05 - July'07 Professional Registrations ACM membership since 2017 ACM membership since 2017 Professional Highlights Founder of the EC (AGT) Mentoring Workshop, co-located with the ACM Economics and Computation Conference.  Area Chair, 22nd ACM Conference on Economics and Computation (EC), 2021.  Program Co-Chair, The 16th Conference on Web and Internet Economics (WINE), 2020. Associate Editor, Mathematics of Operations Research (MOR), INFORMS, since 2020. Founder of the EC (AGT) Mentoring Workshop, co-located with the ACM Economics and Computation Conference. Area Chair, 22nd ACM Conference on Economics and Computation (EC), 2021. Area Chair Program Co-Chair, The 16th Conference on Web and Internet Economics (WINE), 2020. Program Co-Chair Associate Editor, Mathematics of Operations Research (MOR), INFORMS, since 2020. Associate Editor Course Development CS 580: Topics on Algorithmic Game Theory CS 580: Topics on Algorithmic Game Theory Research Statement My research is primarily in theoretical computer science. It looks at the fundamental solution concepts from economics, game theory, and social choice from the computational lens. I am also interested in understanding questions related to fairness in society, and evolution in nature. My main research interests lie in the areas of algorithmic game theory, mathematical economics, and in design of efficient algorithms. I am interested in exploring the computability of equilibria, both market and Nash, under various settings, and also understanding the impact of strategic behavior in multi-agent situations. Currently, I am exploring problems from dynamic matching, fair division of scarce resources, and market design for cloud computing. In addition I am exploring avenues for interdisciplinary applications of these tools to genetic evolution, machine learning and dynamical systems. , Algorithmic Game Theory: Equilibrium Computation and Complexity, Smoothed Analysis, Learning in Games, Strategic and Dynamic Aspects, Fair division, Interdisciplinary applications of game-theoretic tools to machine learning, genetic evolution, and climate change. 