Kris K Hauser, Artificial Intelligence, Ph.D., Computer Science, Stanford University, 2008 B.A., Mathematics, University of California at Berkeley, 2003 B.A., Computer Science, University of California at Berkeley, 2003 Ph.D., Computer Science, Stanford University, 2008 B.A., Mathematics, University of California at Berkeley, 2003 B.A., Computer Science, University of California at Berkeley, 2003 Biography Kris Hauser is a Professor in the Department of Computer Science, the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and the Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. His research interests lie in robot planning and control, a field devoted to providing the decision-making capabilities needed for robots and other intelligent agents to perform complex physical tasks. His research builds upon the theoretical foundations of state space dynamics and optimality, but attempts to overcome the shortcomings of classical theory when faced the complexities of real-world systems, such as high dimensionality, uncertain dynamics, bounded computation, and integration with perception and learning. The methodologies at the foundation of this work include optimization, probabilistic methods, AI, control theory, and physics simulation, and theory is bridged with practice on real-world physical robots in the context of a diverse range of applications with social impact, including robot locomotion and manipulation, medical robots, human-operated robots, warehouse automation, and intelligent vehicles. Prof. Hauser received his PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2008, bachelor's degrees in Computer Science and Mathematics from UC Berkeley in 2003, and worked as a postdoctoral fellow at UC Berkeley. He then joined the faculty at Indiana University from 2009-2014, where he started the Intelligent Motion Lab, and then joined the faculty of Duke University from 2014-2019. Prof. Hauser is a recipient of a Stanford Graduate Fellowship, Siebel Scholar Fellowship, Best Paper Award at IEEE International Conference on Humanoid Robots 2015, the NSF CAREER award, and two Amazon Research Awards. He also works as a consultant for Google's autonomous driving company, Waymo. Academic Positions Professor, Affiliate Appointment, Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2020-Present Professor, Affiliate Appointment, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2019-Present Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2021-present (Associate Professor, 2019-2021)  Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, Duke University, 2014-2019 Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Informatics, Indiana University, 2009-2014 Professor, Affiliate Appointment, Department of Mechanical Science and Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2020-Present Professor, Affiliate Appointment, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2019-Present Professor, Department of Computer Science, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, 2021-present (Associate Professor, 2019-2021) Associate Professor, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science, Duke University, 2014-2019 Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Informatics, Indiana University, 2009-2014 Documents Research image Research image Research image Undergraduate Research Opportunities I frequently involve undergraduates in my research, both as independent study students and summer interns. My lab also participates in competitions, so I also take on students who are interested in contributing to a team effort. My minimum guidelines are that you have a 3.7 GPA, relevant coursework, and can contribute at least 10 hours per week to research. , Robot motion planning and control, semiautonomous robots, and integrating perception and planning, as well as applications to intelligent vehicles, robotic manipulation, robot-assisted medicine, and legged locomotion.